Explain `pub get --enforce-lockfile` (#6108)
dart-lang/site-www: src/content/guides/packages.md

Checking in the lockfile also ensures that your deployed app
uses the same versions of code.

:::note
In some cases `dart pub get` will not give you the exact versions locked in
`pubspec.lock`. For example:

* If new dependencies are added to `pubspec.yaml` since `pubspec.lock` was created.
* If the locked version no longer exists in the package repository.

> * If you upgraded the dart sdk, and some packages no longer are compatible with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you upgraded the Dart SDK, and some packages no longer are compatible with
```

  the sdk.
  
In all these cases `dart pub get` will

> * Attempt to unlock as few dependencies as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unlock as needed.
```

* Notify about any changes in the output.

For example after adding `retry: ^3.0.0` to your dependencies:
```console
$ dart pub get
Resolving dependencies... (1.0s)
Downloading packages... 
+ retry 3.1.2
```

> Also if the hash a published version of a package does not match the hash in
> `pubspec.lock`, `pub` will warn you, but fix the pubspec.lock to reflect the
> published hash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also if the hash of a published version does not match the hash in
`pubspec.lock`, `pub` will warn you, but fix `pubspec.lock` to reflect the
published version:
```

For example if we manually change a hash in `pubspec.lock`:

```console
$ dart pub get
Resolving dependencies... 
Downloading packages... 
~ retry 3.1.2 (was 3.1.2)
The existing content-hash from pubspec.lock doesn't match contents for:
 * retry-3.1.2 from "https://pub.dev"

This indicates one of:
 * The content has changed on the server since you created the pubspec.lock.
 * The pubspec.lock has been corrupted.

The content-hashes in pubspec.lock has been updated.

For more information see:
https://dart.dev/go/content-hashes
Changed 1 dependency!
```

> For deploying your project to production, or for ensuring consistent CI runs,
> use `dart pub get --enforce-lockfile` - that will fail with a non-zero exit code
> if the current lockfile cannot be exactly fulfilled, and does not match your
> current constraints or if there is a hash mismatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying your project to production use `dart pub get --enforce-lockfile`.
This will fail, if dependencies can't be satisfied with the exact versions and hashes in `pubspec.lock`. Thus, you avoid deploying untested dependencies to production.
```

```console
$ dart pub get --enforce-lockfile
Resolving dependencies... 
Downloading packages... 
~ retry 3.1.2 (was 3.1.2)
The existing content-hash from pubspec.lock doesn't match contents for:
 * retry-3.1.2 from "https://pub.dev"

This indicates one of:
 * The content has changed on the server since you created the pubspec.lock.
 * The pubspec.lock has been corrupted.

For more information see:
https://dart.dev/go/content-hashes
Would change 1 dependency.
Unable to satisfy `pubspec.yaml` using `pubspec.lock`.

To update `pubspec.lock` run `dart pub get` without
`--enforce-lockfile`.
```

> :::

Reviewer: This is a very long `:::note` is it not?

Reviewer: maybe it's not a problem.

Reviewer 2: That is a long note! Maybe turn it into a header/section?

Thanks, @jonasfj, for that thorough review!

Author: Yeah - that note got a bit out of hand :) Upgraded to a section

To identify out-of-date packages that require editing the pubspec,
use [`dart pub outdated`][outdated].

> ## Getting dependencies in production - `pub get --enforce-lockfile`

Reviewer 3: Can we keep the header simpler so it's easier to parse in the TOC?

Also I'm assuming most developers aren't getting dependencies "in production" but rather "for production".

```suggestion
## Get dependencies for production
```

> In some cases `dart pub get` will not give you the exact versions locked in
> `pubspec.lock`. For example:

Reviewer 3: Does the following list include all possible situations or just some? If it covers the major cases, I think it's probably fine to lead directly into the list:

```suggestion
In some situations, `dart pub get` does not retrieve
the exact package versions locked in the `pubspec.lock` file:
```

Author: I think these (together with the hash mismatch) are the major ones.

> * If new dependencies are added to `pubspec.yaml` since `pubspec.lock` was created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If new dependencies are added to `pubspec.yaml` after
  the `pubspec.lock` file was last updated.
```

* If the locked version no longer exists in the package repository.

> * If you upgraded the Dart SDK, and some packages no longer are compatible with
>   the sdk.

Reviewer 3: Assuming this can also happen on downgrading SDK versions:

```suggestion
* If you changed to a different version of the Dart SDK,
  and some packages are no longer compatible with that new version.
```

> In all these cases `dart pub get` will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In these cases `dart pub get` will:
```

> * Unlock as needed.

Reviewer 3: Can you expand on what this means? Repeat dependency resolution keeping as many other locked versions the same?

Author: Tried clarifying

> * Notify about any changes in the output.

Reviewer 3: It might be helpful to clarify this is talking about package dependency changes, not changes to the textual output.

Does the following make sense?

```suggestion
* Notify you about differences in retrieved packages and the lockfile.
```

Author: Tried clarifying

> For example after adding `retry: ^3.0.0` to your dependencies:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, after adding `retry: ^3.0.0` to your dependencies:

```

```console
$ dart pub get
Resolving dependencies... (1.0s)
Downloading packages... 
+ retry 3.1.2
```

> Also if the hash of a published version does not match the hash in
> `pubspec.lock`, `pub` will warn you, but fix `pubspec.lock` to reflect the
> published version:

Reviewer 3: How about we cross-link to the glossary entry about pub content hashes?

```suggestion
Also, if the [content hash](/tools/pub/glossary#content-hashes) of a 
published package version differs from the hash in the `pubspec.lock` file,
`pub` will warn you and update the lockfile to reflect the published version:
```

Author: Yeah!

> For example if we manually change a hash in `pubspec.lock`:

Reviewer 3: We [avoid use of "we"](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#we).

```suggestion
For example, if you manually change the hash of `retry` in `pubspec.lock`:
```

```console
$ dart pub get
Resolving dependencies... 
Downloading packages... 
~ retry 3.1.2 (was 3.1.2)
The existing content-hash from pubspec.lock doesn't match contents for:
 * retry-3.1.2 from "https://pub.dev"

This indicates one of:
 * The content has changed on the server since you created the pubspec.lock.
 * The pubspec.lock has been corrupted.

The content-hashes in pubspec.lock has been updated.

For more information see:
https://dart.dev/go/content-hashes
Changed 1 dependency!
```

> When deploying your project to production use `dart pub get --enforce-lockfile`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When deploying your project to production,
use `dart pub get --enforce-lockfile` to retrieve dependencies.
```

> This will fail, if dependencies can't be satisfied with the exact versions and hashes in `pubspec.lock`. Thus, you avoid deploying untested dependencies to production.

Reviewer 3: If possible, put the conditional clause first and be more specific about what "this" is. Would "package retrieval" be an appropriate replacement for "this" here, or perhaps "the command"?

Also, is it worth clarifying "dependencies and dependency versions"? As it seems both would be caught.

A possible alternative with some suggestions:

```suggestion
If your project's dependency constraints can't be satisfied with
the exact versions and content hashes in `pubspec.lock`,
package retrieval and the command will fail.
This helps avoid deploying untested
dependencies and dependency versions to production.
```
